# **NUS Orbital 2023**

# **Study Stash**

## _Toh Ming Chun, Marques Tye_

### Artemis

## Motivation

Whenever midterm/exam season rolls around, students always scramble to source for past year practice papers, solutions and cheatsheets. Typically, these resources are located across multiple platforms, such as gitHub repositories, google drives or from seniors’ personal files. More often than not, these papers would also lack proper solutions and explanations.

## Aim

We hope to make the stressful process of preparing for quizzes, midterms and finals easier by offering a centralised platform for students to access and share resources, including past year papers, solutions, cheatsheets and notes. (Cheatsheets, notes and solutions would be generated by the students)

## User stories

1.  As a student who is revising for exams, I want to be able to easily find the resources that I need, especially solutions for difficult questions. It would also be nice if I could be able to identify at a glance the relative difficulty of the papers and validity of the solutions.

2.  As a student revising for exams, I would like to find users studying the same module and work on problems with them, and discuss the optimal solutions.

3.  As a student who has satisfactorily completed the module, I would like to help the coming batches of students by uploading my compiled cheatsheets, notes and proposed solutions.

## Tech Stack

### Frontend

- React
  - React-hot-toast
  - React-select
  - Jotai (State Management Library)
- TailwindCSS (CSS Framework)
- Framer Motion (Animation Library)
- ShadCN UI (UI Library Built upon Radix UI)
- Lucide icons & React-icons (Icon Libraries)

### Meta framework

- NextJS

### Database

- Planetscale (Using MySQL)
- Prisma (Object Relational Mapper)
- AWS S3 (PDF storage)

### Tools

- Typescript
- Jest & React Testing Library (Unit Testing)
- Cypress (E2E Testing)
- ESLint (Linting)
- Prettier (Code Formatting)
- Google OAuth and NextAuth (Authentication)
- Vercel (Hosting and Deployment)

## Features

Our aim was to create a web app that provides an experience similar to a desktop app, instead of a web page. To create that feeling, we set the main page to be non scrollable, and instead have specific scrollable components when needed.

## For each feature, include description, implementation (how the code works), challenges faced (e.g. jotai for atomic state management for the rating in bg issue)

## Overall navigation flow

show diagram of routing and workflow

## Timeline and Development Plan

## Wireframe

## UML Diagrams

## Model Entity Relationship Diagram

show database relationships

## Type validation

Typescript was used to provide static typing to reduce bugs, and more importantly to utilise the Typescript Language Server Protocol to provide autocomplete and type checking in the IDE for a better developer experience.

### Prisma

Prisma not only serves as an object relational mapper for us to interact with the database, but also extends the type definitions of the database to the application, allowing us to perform type checking on the database queries.

### Zod

At the API level, we used Zod to validate the request body at runtime to ensure that the data sent by the user is of the correct type, as well as to extend the benefits of Typescript to the API level.

## User experience

### Instant feedback

To provide instant feedback to the user, we designed our app to be as responsive as possible, with loading states and error messages to inform the user of the status of their request.

### Transitions and animations

Page transitions and animations were used to provide a more seamless experience for the user.

## Testing

### Unit Testing

We used Jest and React Testing Library to conduct unit tests. Unit tests were conducted to ensure that individual components of the application were working as intended.

### End to End Testing

We intend to use Cypress to conduct E2E tests.

### User Testing

## Software Engineering Practices

### Version control

The remote master branch is a protected branch containing contains the code used in production, and code cannot be pushed into it directly, instead requiring a pull request to be made before merging, as well as approval by the partner as the code reviewer, as well as passing status checks such as GitGuardian (see Security Measures)

For code review, we come together and discuss the changes to ensure everyone is on the same page.

### Github Issues

Github Issues was used to keep track of any bugs in the application and features we wanted to implement. Labels were included to more easily identify the type of issues, be it bugs, features or something we would like to revisit.

### Github Projects

We used Github Projects, which was highly integrated with Github Issues to have a spreadsheet like field of all the issues (and features) and their statuses, making it easy to keep track of the progress of the project.

### Two-week Sprints

### Security Measures

#### Updating dependencies

Dependabot was used to automatically create pull requests to update dependencies to the latest version, allowing us to keep our dependencies up to date to use the latest features, and more importantly to keep our app secure and free from security vulnerabiltiies.

#### Concealing secret keys

Secret keys, such as database (SQL and AWS S3) and authentication (NextAuth and Google OAuth) related information was stored in a .env file and excluded from version control using a gitignore file.

#### GitGuardian

GitGuardian was used to scan for any leaked secret keys in the repository, and would automatically create an issue in the repository if any were found.

#### Protect API routes with server side validation and authentication

To protect our API routes, we would also validate the authenticity of the request sent by the user using JSON Web Token authentication.

### Linting and code formatting

ESLint was used to perform static analysis of the code to identify stylistic errors and potential bugs, while Prettier was used to format the code on save to boost productivity and ensure consistent code formatting. Config files for both were included in the repository to ensure consistency across all contributors.

### CI/CD

Github Actions and Vercel was utilised to perform Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment. The CI workflow was triggered on every push to the repository, and would run the production build, followed by unit tests and linting. The CD workflow was triggered on every push to the main branch, and would deploy the application to Vercel.

## Limitations

## Challenges

### Edge cases

1. long names causing layout shifts, solution: overflow
